.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc_writing_consumers 7 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2010\-12\-29 "\*[lhc]"
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc_writing_consumers \- Create new consumers
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
A consumer consists of a set of files. At the core there is a file
called "consumer". This is an executable program that converts health check
result data to some other format, either for display to the user or for
automated processing.
.PP
The following steps summarize what you need to do to create a consumer.
.PP
.RS 4
.IP 1. 3
Create the consumer directory and required files.

A consumer requires a directory with a set of specific text files called
definitions and descriptions.

The directory name identifies the consumer and must be unique. The name
can be between 3 and 40 characters long. It can consist of lowercase letters
a-z, digits 0-9, and the underscore sign ("_").
.
.IP 2. 3
Write the consumer program.

The consumer file of a consumer contains the program which performs the actual
result data processing. Its job is to convert the health check result data
provided by the \*[lhc] into a different form. You can use any programming
language to write the consumer program.

See the
.MP lnxhc_cons_program 7
man page for details.
.
.IP 3. 3
Define consumer parameters.

Consumers can accept user input through parameters. The framework passes
the parameters to the consumer program but makes no other use of the data.
To define a parameter, assign an ID and an optional default value to it in the
definitions file.

See the
.MP lnxhc_cons_definitions 5
man page for details.
.
.IP 4. 3
Finalize the consumer.

To correctly handle a new consumer the \*[lhc] requires metadata, such as
author name, requested input data format, call frequency, and a description.
Add metadata to the definitions file. Add a description to the descriptions
file.

See the
.MP lnxhc_cons_definitions 5
and
.MP lnxhc_cons_descriptions 5
man pages for details.
.
.IP 5. 3
Run the consumer.

To run the consumer, install and activate it using the \*[lhc] consumer
subcommand. Then run a health check using the run subcommand. The consumer
will be called with health check result data.

See the
.MP lnxhc-consumer 1
and
.MP lnxhc-run 1
man pages for details.
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.IB consumer_directory /consumer
Executable program implementing the consumer. See the
.MP lnxhc_cons_program 7
man page.

.TP
.IB consumer_directory /definitions
Metadata defining consumer attributes. See the
.MP lnxhc_cons_definitions 5
man page.

.TP
.IB consumer_directory /descriptions
Textual description of the consumer and its parameters. See the
.MP lnxhc_cons_descriptions 5
man page.

.PD 0
.TP
.IB consumer_directory / language_code /descriptions
Descriptions localized for the specified language. See the
.MP locale 1
man page for more information on language codes.
.PD
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP lnxhc 1 ,
.MP lnxhc_cons_program 7 ,
.MP lnxhc_cons_definitions 5 ,
.MP lnxhc_cons_descriptions 5
