.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc_cons_definitions 5 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "\*[lhc]"
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc_cons_definitions \- Define consumer metadata
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B definitions
file of a consumer contains metadata needed by the \*[lhc] to correctly handle
the consumer. When you create or modify a definitions file you must ensure that
this data is consistent with the behavior of the corresponding consumer
program.
.P
Data is
stored in lines of text which are grouped into named sections. Text encoding
is UTF-8. Empty lines and lines starting with a hash sign ("#") are ignored.
.
.
.SS "Example definitions file"
.RS 4
.CL [consumer]
.CL author=\[dq]Peter Oberparleiter <peter.oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>\[dq]
.CL format=env
.CL frequency=both
.CL event=any
.CL type=report
.CL
.CL [param show_exception_details]
.CL default=0
.CL
.CL [param show_stats]
.CL default=0
.CL
.CL [param show_info]
.CL default=0
.RE
.
.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Each line can contain data in one of the following formats:
.PP
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.B Section heading

A section heading is a line starting with an opening square
bracket ("["), followed by one or more whitespace-separated identifiers,
followed by a closing square bracket ("]"). Identifiers may consists of
lowercase-letters a-z, digits 0-9 and the underscore sign.

.B Example:
.br
.CL [consumer]
.PP
.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Keyword-value assignment

A keyword-value assignment is a line starting with an identifier, followed by
the equal sign ("="), followed by a value string which may be enclosed in
single ("'") or double ('"') quotes to preserve white spaces.

.B Example:
.br
.CL state=active
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH SECTIONS
Valid sections for a consumer definitions file are:
.PP
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.CL [consumer]

This mandatory section contains definitions which affect the consumer as a whole.
.PP
.
.IP \(bu 2
.CL [param \fIidentifier\fP]

This mandatory section specifies default values for parameters. For each
parameter that a consumer defines one such section must be present.
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH "CONSUMER SECTION"
.KY author = email_address
.RS
Specify consumer author e-mail address in the format defined by RFC 5322.

.B Example:
.br
.CL author = \[dq]User <user@host>\[dq]

This keyword is mandatory. It may occur multiple times.
.PP
.RE
.
.KY event =exception|any
.RS
Specify the type of event that the consumer receives.

.B exception
.RS
This consumer receives check result data only when a check identifies an
exception.
.RE
.PP
.B any
.RS
This consumer receives all check result data, regardless of whether an
exception was identified or not.
.RE
.PP
.RE
.
.KY extrafile = filename
.RS
Specify additional files to be installed as part of the consumer.
Filename paths must be specified relative to the consumer directory.

Use this keyword if you provide additional files such as helper scripts which
are required by the consumer program to function correctly. In this case, add
one "extrafile" line for each provided file. Note that such files must be stored
in the consumer directory or one of its subdirectories.

This keyword is optional. If it is omitted, no additional files will be
installed. This keyword may occur multiple times.
.PP
.RE
.
.KY format =xml|env
.RS
Specify the format in which the consumer receives check result data from
the \*[lhc].

.B xml
.RS
The consumer receives check results as XML data which the \*[lhc] presents
to the consumer program's standard input stream.
.RE
.PP
.B env
.RS
The consumer receives check result data in environment variables.
.RE
.PP
.RE
.
.KY frequency =foreach|once|both
.RS
Specify the frequency at which the consumer runs.

.B foreach
.RS
The consumer runs whenever a check finishes. It receives result data only
for the check that finished.
.PP
.RE
.B once
.RS
The consumer runs only once, after all checks finished. It receives result
data for all checks that finished.
.PP
.RE
.B both
.RS
The consumers runs in both instances: whenever a check finishes with result
data for that check only, and again after all check finished with data for all
checks that finished.
.RE
.PP
.RE
.
.KY state =active|inactive
.RS
Specify the default activation state of this consumer. It is recommended
to set this state to "inactive".
.PP
This keyword is optional. If omitted, the consumer is inactive by default.
This keyword may only be present once.
.PP
.RE
.
.KY type =handler|report
.RS
Specify the type of processing that this consumer implements.

.B handler
.RS
This consumers implements arbitrary processing: the consumer program does not
write output to the standard output stream. Instead it makes its output
available to the user through alternate channels, for example by writing it to
files, or logging mechanisms, or by transferring it using a networking protocol.
.PP
.RE
.B report
.RS
This consumer implements a report generator: the consumer program writes all of
its output to its standard output stream, which is then displayed to the user.
.RE
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH "PARAM SECTION"
A parameter section defines the default value for a parameter. It is introduced
by the following line in the definitions file:
.PP
.RS
.CL [param \fIidentifier\fP]
.RE
.PP
where
.I identifier
specifies the name of the parameter. Parameter sections are mandatory.
.PP
The following keywords are valid in the context of a parameter section:

.KY default = string
.RS
Specify the default value for a parameter. The default value is used when
no other value is specified by the user.

This keyword is optional. If omitted, an empty string is assumed. This keyword
may only be present once.
.RE
.PP
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP lnxhc 1 ,
.MP lnxhc_writing_consumers 7 ,
.MP lnxhc_cons_program 7
