.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc_check_descriptions 5 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "\*[lhc]"
.
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc_check_descriptions \- Describe the purpose and parameters of a health check
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B descriptions
file of a health check contains descriptions of the
health check and its parameters. Users can display this information using
the \-\-info or \-\-show actions of the lnxhc check command.
.PP
.
.
.SS "Example definitions file"
.RS 4
.CL [title]
.CL Check file systems for adequate free space
.CL
.CL [description]
.CL Some applications and administrative tasks require an adequate
.CL amount of free space on each mounted file system. If there is
.CL not enough free space, these applications might no longer be
.CL available or the complete system might be compromised. Regular
.CL monitoring of disk space usage averts this risk.
.CL
.CL [param warn_limit]
.CL File system usage (in percent) at which to raise a low-severity
.CL exception.
.CL
.CL Valid values are integers in the range 1 to 100.
.CL
.CL [param critical_limit]
.CL File system usage (in percent) at which to raise a high-severity
.CL exception.
.CL
.CL Valid values are integers in the range 1 to 100.
.CL
.CL [param mount_points]
.CL A list of mount points, separated by colons (:). The file systems
.CL mounted at the specified mount points are to be checked for free
.CL space. If the list is empty, all mounted file systems are checked.
.CL Example: /mnt:/home/mymnt/usr/data/myapp
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Data is stored in lines of text that are grouped into named sections. Text
encoding is UTF-8. Each line can contain data in one of the following formats:
.PP
.
.
.SS "Section heading"
A section heading line consists of one or more identifiers, separated by blanks
and enclosed in square brackets ("[ ]"). Identifiers consist of
lowercase-letters a-z, digits 0-9, and the underscore sign.
.PP
.B Example:
.br
.CL [description]
.PP
.
.
.SS Text
A text line is a string of arbitrary characters.
.PP
.
.
.SH SECTIONS
The sections in the list below are valid in a descriptions file. Each section
is mandatory.
.PP
.B [title]
.RS
This section contains a short  description of what the health
check does. At minimum it should contain information about the component and
the aspect of that component that is being checked.
.PP
.B Example:
.br
.CL [title]
.CL Check for CHPIDs that are not available
.PP
.NT No formatting can be applied to the text in a title section.
.RE
.
.B [description]
.RS
This section contains a detailed description of what the health check does.
.PP
.RE
.
.BI [param " identifier" ]
.RS
This section contains a short description of the parameter specified by
.IR identifier .
Code one section for every health check parameter.
.PP
.B Example:
.br
.CL [param warn_limit]
.CL File system usage (in percent) at which to raise a low-severity exception
.PP
.RE
.RE
.
.
.SH FORMATTING
Text in a descriptions file can be enhanced with basic formatting elements,
such as paragraphs, preformatted text, lists, and simple tables. See the
.MP lnxhc_text_format 7
man page for more information on available formatting elements.
.
.
.SH LOCALIZATION
The default language for a descriptions file is American English (en_US).
Add translated versions of the descriptions file to a subdirectory of the
health check directory. This sub-directory must be named after the code of the
language to which the translation applies. See the
.MP locale 1
man page for details.
.PP
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP lnxhc 1 ,
.MP lnxhc_text_format 7 ,
.MP lnxhc_writing_checks 7
