.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc_sysinfo_program 7 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "Linux Health Checker"
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc_sysinfo_program \- Implementing a sysinfo program
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
A sysinfo program is a part of a health check. The \*[lhc] runs sysinfo programs
before the corresponding health checks. It's job is to collect system
information which the health check program analyzes. Use sysinfo programs
when the basic system information item types "program" and "file" are not
sufficient to collect a certain data point.
.PP
.
.
.SS "Programming languages"
Sysinfo programs can be implemented using any programming language that provides
access to environment variables. When choosing a programming language,
make sure that the required runtime environment is available on a typical
target system.
.PP
.
.
.SS "File permissions"
The sysinfo program file must have the execute file permission set for all users
who should be allowed to run lnxhc.
.
.
.SS "Invocation"
Use
.B lnxhc sysinfo \-\-collect
to run the sysinfo programs of all active health checks. The \*[lhc] sets the
current working directory for the sysinfo program to the installation directory
of the associated health check.
.PP
A sysinfo program may only access those
files in the check directory that it declared as extrafiles (see
.MP lnxhc_check_definitions 5 .
It must not expect that any other part of the health check or the \*[lhc]
framework is available.
.
.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The \*[lhc] provides the following environment variables to sysinfo programs:
.PP
.BR LC_ALL =\[dq]C\[dq]
.RS
Program locale.
.PP
The \*[lhc] runs sysinfo programs with a fixed locale ("C") to prevent
problems with localized output of helper programs that the sysinfo
program runs.
.PP
.RE
.
.B LNXHC_CHECK_DIR
.RS
Health check installation directory.
.PP
.RE
.
.BI LNXHC_SYS_ sysvar_id
.RS
System variable value.
.PP
The value of host system specification
.I sysvar_id
for the host on which the sysinfo program is running.
For a description of system variables, see the
.MP lnxhc_check_definitions 5
man page.
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH "STANDARD INPUT STREAM"
.SS "Program type sysinfo items"
No data is presented on the standard input stream of the sysinfo program.
.PP
.
.
.SS "Record type sysinfo items"
No data is presented on the standard input stream of the
.B start
sysinfo program.
The
.B stop
sysinfo program receives all of the output of the start program as input.
.
.
.SH "OUTPUT STREAMS"
.SS "Program type sysinfo items"
All output written by the sysinfo program to the standard out and standard
error streams is recorded and presented as system information to the
health check program. There is no restriction on the format or language of
such output.
.PP
.
.
.SS "Record type sysinfo items"
All output written by the
.B start
sysinfo program to the standard out and
standard error streams is recorded and presented as standard input stream to
the stop sysinfo program. All output written by the
.B stop
sysinfo program
is recorded and presented as system information to the health check
program. There is no restriction on the format or language of such output.
.
.
.SH "EXIT CODES"
The \*[lhc] interprets sysinfo program exit codes to determine the outcome
of running a sysinfo program. An exit code of 0 indicates that the sysinfo
program ran successfully. Any other exit code indicates a runtime error.
.PP
If the sysinfo item defines ignorerc=1, the health check will be presented
with the output and exit code of the sysinfo program. Otherwise the health
check will not run with result code "failed sysinfo".
.PP
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.MP lnxhc 1 ,
.MP lnxhc_check_definitions 5 ,
.MP lnxhc_writing_checks 7
