.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc-consumer 1 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "\*[lhc]"
.
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc-consumer \- Display, configure and manage check result consumers
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
Display actions:
.PP
.nh
.na
.B lnxhc consumer
.OS list l
.OS info i
.OS show s
.RS 15
.
.OS show\-property "" property_key
.RE
.ad
.hy
.PP
Configuration actions:
.PP
.nh
.na
.B lnxhc consumer
.OS state S consumer_name =active|inactive
.RS 15
.
.OS param p consumer_name . parameter_id = value
.br
.
.OS set "" property_key = value
.OS defaults d
.br
.OS report R consumer_name
.RE
.ad
.hy
.PP
Management actions:
.PP
.nh
.na
.B lnxhc consumer
.OS install "" directory_name
.OS "uninstall
.ad
.hy
.PP
Options:
.PP
.nh
.na
.B lnxhc consumer
.OS profile "" profile_name
.OS system
.RS 15
.
.OS match\-all
.RI [ SELECTION ]
.RE
.ad
.hy
.
.NT You must specify exactly one action. See ACTIONS.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B consumer
subcommand provides functions related to the management of
consumer plug-ins and associated data. A consumer is a program that processes
the result of a health check run. Examples for such
processing are showing a report or sending an e-mail when a problem is
identified.
.PP
The \*[lhc] distinguishes between two consumer types:
.TP
.B Reports
A report consumer shows the result of a health check run on the terminal from
which the lnxhc command was started.
.
.TP
.B Handlers
A handler consumer processes health check results in an arbitrary way, for
example by sending exception messages via e-mail or by logging them to the
syslog facility.
.RE
.PP
Consumer data falls into one of the following two categories:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
Static data, such as name or description
.IP \(bu 2
Configuration data, such as activation state or parameter values
.RE
.PP
You can use the
.B display actions
to view both static and configuration data,
and the
.B configuration actions
to modify configuration data.
.PP
The \*[lhc] maintains per-user databases and a system-wide database of
installed consumers. You can use the
.B management actions
to add or remove consumers from this database.
.PP
The functions of this subcommand apply to the consumers in the database.
You can also instruct the \*[lhc] to work with consumers which
are not installed (see next section).
.
.
.SH SELECTION
You can use the
.I SELECTION
argument of the "consumer" subcommand to select the list of consumers to which
an action applies.
In the absence of a selection, the action applies to all installed consumers.

This argument can take one or more of the following formats:
.TP
.I consumer_name
Select the consumer which is specified by
.IR consumer_name .
.
.TP
.I pattern
Select all consumers with a name that matches
.IR pattern .
Pattern may contain "*" for any number of arbitrary characters
and "?" for a single arbitrary character.
.
.TP
.IR property_key = value
Select all consumers where the value of the property specified by
.I property_key
matches
.IR value .
.RS
.NT You must specify \fIproperty_key\fP without the leading consumer_name.
.RE
.
.TP
.IR property_key != value
Select all consumers where the value of the property specified by
.I property_key
does not match
.IR value .
.RS
.NT You must specify \fIproperty_key\fP without the leading consumer_name.
.RE
.
.TP
.I directory_name
Select the consumer which is found in directory
.IR directory_name .
.RE
.PP
You can specify more than one of these selection criteria. In this case
the \*[lhc] selects all consumers which match
.B any
of the criteria.
You can specify the option
.B \-\-match\-all
to change this behavior to only select consumers which match
.B all
of the criteria.
.
.
.SH ACTIONS
.OD defaults d SELECTION
Reset all configuration values to default values.

This action resets the configuration values of all selected consumers
to their default values which are provided by the consumer authors.

You must provide a selection for this action.
.PP
.
.OD info i SELECTION
Show basic consumer information.

This action displays basic information about a consumer.
This includes the consumer title and description, and the list of defined
parameters.

You must provide a selection for this action.
.PP
.
.OD install "" directory_name
Add consumer from directory
.I directory_name
to the database.

This action installs a new consumer into the database.
The \*[lhc] copies the files associated with
this consumer to the user data directory and makes the consumer available to
the installing user.

To install a consumer for system-wide use, specify the
.B \-\-system
option together with this action. In this case, the \*[lhc]
copies the files associated with this consumer to the system-wide consumer
directory (see
.MP lnxhcrc 5 ).
.RS
.NT You require sufficient write access for the system-wide database installation directory.
.RE
.PP
.
.OD list l "" [ SELECTION ]
List consumers.

This action shows a list of consumers including their name, the consumer
type as well as the current consumer activation state.

You can specify a selection for this action. If you do not provide a selection,
the list includes all installed consumers.
.PP
.
.OD "" p consumer_name . parameter_id = value
.OD "" p parameter_id = value " " " SELECTION"
.OD param "" consumer_name . parameter_id = value
.OD param "" parameter_id = value " " " SELECTION"
Change the value of a consumer parameter.

This action changes the value of a consumer parameter.

In the first format, you identify the parameter by concatenating the
.I consumer_name
and
.I parameter_id
using a dot as separator. In the second format, you specify the
.I parameter_id
directly and select one or more consumers by using a
.IR SELECTION .

If you change the parameter value it is not checked for correctness. An
incorrect value might cause the corresponding consumer to end with a runtime
error.

You must provide a selection for the second format of this action.
.PP
.
.OD report R consumer_name
Set
.I consumer_name
as active report consumer.

This option selects
.I consumer_name
as the active consumer that will be used to report health check output.
.PP
.
.OD set "" property_key = value
.OD set "" property_key = "value SELECTION"
Change the value of a consumer property.

This action changes the value of a consumer property.
You identify the property by specifying its
.I property_key
(see the
.MP lnxhc_properties 7
man page).

In the first format, you specify the full
.IR property_key ,
including the consumer name.
The key may contain "*" for any number of arbitrary characters and "?" for a
single arbitrary character.
In the second format, you specify the
.IR property_key
without the consumer name (resulting in a leading dot) and select one or more
consumers by using a
.IR SELECTION .

.B Example:
.br
.CL # lnxhc consumer \-\-set .state=inactive basic_report

You must provide a selection for the second format of this action.

.RS
.NT There are properties which you cannot modify.
.RE
.PP
.
.OD show s SELECTION
Show detailed consumer information.

This action displays detailed information about a consumer. In addition to
the information shown by the
.B \-\-info
action this includes the complete metadata defined by a consumer.

You must provide a selection for this action.
.PP
.
.OD show\-property "" property_key
.OD show\-property "" "property_key SELECTION"
Show the value of a consumer property.

This action displays the value of a consumer property. You identify the
property by specifying its
.I property_key
(see the
.MP lnxhc_properties 7
man page).

In the first format, you specify the full
.IR property_key ,
including the consumer name.
The key may contain "*" for any number of arbitrary characters and "?" for a
single arbitrary character.
In the second format, you specify the
.IR property_key
without the consumer name (resulting in a leading dot) and select one or more
consumers by using a
.IR SELECTION .

.B Example:
.br
.CL # lnxhc consumer \-\-show-property .state '*'

You must provide a selection for the second format of this action.
.PP
.
.OD "" S consumer_name =active|inactive
.OD "" S "" active|inactive " SELECTION"
.OD state "" consumer_name =active|inactive
.OD state "" "" active|inactive " SELECTION"
Change the activation state of a consumer.

This action changes the activation state of a consumer.
The \*[lhc] runs consumers only when they are active.

In the first format, you identify the consumer by specifying its
.IR consumer_name .
In the second format, you select one or more consumers by using a
.IR SELECTION .

You must provide a selection for the second format of this action.
.PP
.
.OD uninstall "" SELECTION
Remove a consumer from the database.

This action removes an installed consumer from the \*[lhc]
database. As a result, the files and directories associated with this
consumer are deleted and the consumer is no longer available.

To remove a system-wide consumer, specify the
.B \-\-system
option together with this action.

You must provide a selection for this action.

.RS
.NT You require sufficient write access for the system-wide database installation directory.
.RE
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.OD match\-all
Select only consumers which match all selection criteria.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to select only those consumers
which match
.B all
specified selection criteria. Without this option, the selection
includes all consumers which match
.B any
of the specified criteria.

.B Example:
.br
.CL # lnxhc consumer \-\-list type=report state=inactive \-\-match-all
.P
.
.OD profile "" profile_name
Use configuration values from a specific profile.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to use the profile with the
specified
.I profile_name
as source or target for actions that query or modify configuration data.
Without this option, actions apply to configuration data of the active profile.
.P
.
.OD system
Use the system-wide database for management actions.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to perform consumer management
actions
.B \-\-install
and
.B \-\-uninstall
on the system-wide database. Without this option, management actions
apply to the per-user database only.
.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B List all report consumers:
.RS 4
.CL # lnxhc consumer \-\-list type=report
.RE
.PP
.B Show basic information for consumer \[dq]basic_report\[dq]:
.RS 4
.CL # lnxhc consumer \-\-info basic_report
.RE
.PP
.B Show detailed information for consumer in directory \[dq]my_consumer\[dq]:
.RS 4
.CL # lnxhc consumer \-\-show ./my_consumer
.RE
.PP
.B Activate consumer \[dq]basic_report\[dq]:
.RS 4
.CL # lnxhc consumer \-\-state active basic_report
.RE
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP lnxhc 1 ,
.MP lnxhc_properties 7 ,
.MP lnxhc_writing_consumers 7
