.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc-run 1 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "\*[lhc]"
.
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc-run \- Run health checks
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.na
.B lnxhc run
.OS param p check_name . parameter_id = value
.RS 10
.
.OS cons\-param P consumer_name . parameter_id = value
.br
.
.OS defaults d
.OS profile "" profile_name
.br
.OS replay r
.OS report R consumer_name
.OS no\-report
.br
.OS no\-handler
.OS file f filename
.OS current c
.br
.OS sysvar "" sysvar_id = value
.OS no\-sudo
.br
.OS add\-data "" check_name . sysinfo_name = filename
.br
.OS match\-all
.RI [ SELECTION ]
.ad
.hy
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B run
subcommand starts the health checking process. This process consists
of the following steps:
.RS 4
.IP 1. 3
Collect health check input data (called "system information").
.IP 2. 3
Run health check programs.
.IP 3. 3
Run consumer programs with health check results.
.RE
.PP
The run subcommand runs all active health checks by default. You can control
which health checks to run with a
.I SELECTION
argument, see the SELECTION section.
.PP
In the default configuration, if you do not specify any arguments, the basic
report is shown. If you need additional information, such as the full exception
message or the exact reason why a check is not applicable, specify the
.B \-\-verbose
option. You can specify this option more than once, each time increases the
level of detail. See also
.MP lnxhcrc 5 .
.PP
.
.
.SH SELECTION
Use one or more
.I SELECTION
arguments to select the list of health checks to run. A SELECTION argument
is in one of the following formats:
.PP
.TP
.I check_name
Select the check which is specified by
.IR check_name .
.PP
.
.TP
.I pattern
Select all checks with a name that matches
.IR pattern .
Pattern may contain "*" for any number of arbitrary characters
and "?" for a single arbitrary character.
.PP
.
.TP
.IR property_key = value
Select all checks where the value of the property specified by
.I property_key
matches
.IR value .
.RS
.NT You must specify \fIproperty_key\fP without the leading check_name.
.RE
.
.TP
.IR property_key != value
Select all checks where the value of the property specified by
.I property_key
does not match
.IR value .
.RS
.NT You must specify \fIproperty_key\fP without the leading check_name.
.RE
.PP
.
.TP
.I directory_name
Select the check which is found in directory
.IR directory_name .
.RE
.PP
If you specify more than one SELECTION argument, the \*[lhc] selects all checks
that meet any of the criteria. To select only checks that meet all of the
criteria, specify
.BR \-\-match\-all .
.PP
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.OD add\-data "" sysinfo_id = filename
.OD add\-data "" check_name . sysinfo_id = filename
.OD add\-data "" data_id = filename
Add item data from file
.I filename
to the current system information.

This action adds the contents of a file as item data to the current system
information, which will then be used as input for the current health check run.
This can be useful if a health check requires information that the \*[lhc]
cannot collect by itself (for example hardware or hypervisor data).
You can also use it to run health checks on data that was not collected by the
lnxhc command.

You identify the target item by providing the corresponding health check name
and sysinfo item ID concatenated by a dot. The check name and dot can optionally
be left out, in which case the data for all active checks with a corresponding
sysinfo item ID will be modified. Alternatively, the target item can be
identified directly specifying the data ID. See action
.B \-\-show\-data\-id
in
.MP lnxhc-check 1
for more information on how to determine the data ID of a sysinfo item.
.PP
.
.OD cons\-param P consumer_name . parameter_id = value
Change the value of a consumer parameter.

Identify the consumer parameter by concatenating the
.I consumer_name
and
.I parameter_id
using a dot as separator.

If you change the parameter value it is not checked for correctness. An
incorrect value might cause the corresponding consumer to end with a runtime
error.

.RS
.NT This change is not persistent and is used only for the current health check run.
.RE
.PP
.
.OD current c
Use current system information.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to use the system information dataset
currently in the database instead of collecting new system information.
.PP
.
.OD defaults d
Reset all configuration values to default values.

This option resets the configuration values of all health checks and consumers
to the default values that were provided by the respective authors.
.RS
.NT This change is not persistent and is used only for the current health check run.
.RE
.PP
.
.OD file f filename
Read system information from a file.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to read system information from
.I filename
and use that data instead of collecting new system information.
.PP
.
.OD match\-all
Select only checks that match all selection criteria.

Without this option, the selection includes all checks that match
.B any
of the specified criteria.

.B Example:
.br
This example runs otherwise inactive kernel health checks:
.br
.CL # lnxhc run component=kernel state=inactive \-\-match-all
.PP
.
.OD no\-handler
Deactivate all handler consumers.

This option changes the activation state of all consumers of type handler to
inactive. As a result, the \*[lhc] does not run any handler consumers.
.RS
.NT This change is not persistent and is used only for the current health check run.
.RE
.PP
.
.OD no\-report
Deactivate all report consumers.

This option changes the activation state of all consumers of type report to
inactive. As a result, the \*[lhc] does not run any report consumers.
.RS
.NT This change is not persistent and is used only for the current health check run.
.RE
.PP
.
.OD no\-sudo
Skip collection of sysinfo data requiring sudo.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to skip the collection of sysinfo data that
would require changing the user ID of the calling user using the sudo mechanism.
You can use this option to prevent ineffective password prompts if your user
ID is not enabled for sudo usage. See also
.MP sudo 5 .
.PP
.
.OD "" p check_name . parameter_id = value
.OD "" p parameter_id = value
.OD param "" check_name . parameter_id = value
.OD param "" parameter_id = value
Change the value of a check parameter.

This argument can be specified in two formats:

.B "First format:"
.br
Identify the parameter by concatenating the
.I check_name
and
.I parameter_id
using a dot as separator.

.B "Second format:"
.br
Specify only the
.IR parameter_id .
When you use this format, the \*[lhc] changes all parameters with this ID
in all health checks that you select for running.

If you change the parameter value it is not checked for correctness. An
incorrect value might cause the corresponding health check to end with a runtime
error.

.RS
.NT This change is not persistent and is used only for the current health check run.
.RE
.PP
.
.OD profile "" profile_name
Use configuration values from a specific profile.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to use configuration data from the profile
called
.I profile_name
for this run.
.PP
.
.OD replay r
Use previous check results.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to reuse check results from the previous
health check run. It does not collect new system information or run any
health check programs.

.B Example:
.br
This example reuses check results for report consumers only:
.br
.CL # lnxhc run \-\-replay \-\-no-handler
.PP
.
.OD report R consumer_name
Use
.I consumer_name
as report consumer for this run.

This option selects
.I consumer_name
as the active consumer that will be used to report health check output.
.RS
.NT This change is not persistent and is used only for the current health check run.
.RE
.PP
.
.OD sysvar "" sysvar_id = value
Change the value of a system variable.

This option overrides the value of a system variable for this run. The
\*[lhc] uses this new value to decide if a health check is applicable.

.B Example
.br
This example runs health checks for the i386 platform:
.br
.CL # lnxhc run \-\-sysvar sys_platform=i386
.PP
.
.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.B lnxhc run
has the following return values:
.RS 4
.TP
.B 0
All health checks completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
One or more health checks completed with exceptions.
.TP
.B 2
One or more health checks failed.
.RE
.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Show the previous report without running any handlers:
.RS 4
.CL # lnxhc run \-\-replay \-\-no-handler
.RE
.PP
.B Run all health checks that analyze filesystems:
.RS 4
.CL # lnxhc run component=filesystem
.RE
.PP
.B Run health check in directory \[dq]my_check\[dq]:
.RS 4
.CL # lnxhc run ./my_check
.RE
.PP
.B Run health checks on the system information found in \[dq]file.sysinfo\[dq]:
.RS 4
.CL # lnxhc run \-\-file ./file.sysinfo
.RE
.PP
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP lnxhc 1
