.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc-sysinfo 1 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "\*[lhc]"
.
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc-sysinfo \- Display, modify and manage system information
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
Display actions:
.PP
.nh
.na
.B lnxhc sysinfo
.OS list l
.OS show s
.OS show\-property "" property_key
.RS 14
.
.OS show\-sysvar
.OS show\-data "" check_name . sysinfo_name
.RE
.ad
.hy
.PP
Modification actions:
.PP
.nh
.na
.B lnxhc sysinfo
.OS clear
.OS add\-data a data_id = filename
.RS 14
.
.OS add\-data a check_name . sysinfo_name = filename
.br
.
.OS set "" property_key = value
.OS remove r property_key
.br
.
.OS sysvar "" sysvar_id = value
.OS merge m filename
.RE
.ad
.hy
.PP
Management actions:
.PP
.nh
.na
.B lnxhc sysinfo
.OS collect c
.OS new n
.RS 14
.OS export e filename
.OS import i filename
.RE
.ad
.hy
.PP
Options:
.PP
.nh
.na
.B lnxhc sysinfo
.OS instance\-id I instance_id
.OS host\-id H host_id
.RS 14
.br
.
.OS file f filename
.OS profile "" profile_name
.br
.OS no\-sudo
.RE
.ad
.hy
.
.NT You must specify exactly one action. See ACTIONS.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sysinfo
subcommand provides functions related to the management of
system information. In the context of the \*[lhc],
.B system information
(or
.B sysinfo
for short) refers to the sum of health check input data.
.PP
Examples for system information are:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
Contents of a file (such as /etc/fstab)
.IP \(bu 2
Output of a command (such as /bin/dmesg)
.RE
.PP
In the \*[lhc] framework, health checks do not collect system information
by themselves. Instead each health check defines
.B sysinfo items
which contain instructions on how to obtain the required information.
.PP
When you run health checks, the lnxhc program collects the required data using
these sysinfo item definitions and stores it as
.BR "current system information" .
You can use the
.B display actions
to browse this data.
.PP
.
.
.SS "Data hierarchy"
The current system information can include data for multiple points in time.
A point in time is referred to as
.B instance
and it is identified by an instance ID which can either be a timestamp or a
symbolic name such as "install day". All data related to one instance is
called an "instance dataset".
.PP
For each instance, the current system information can also include data
from multiple hosts. A
.B host
is identified by a host ID which can either be its hostname or another arbitrary
name. Associated with a host are system variables which represent system
specifications, for example about the version and platform, for the Linux
instance of the host.
All data related to one host in one instance is called a "host dataset".
.PP
A single unit of system information is called a system information
.BR item .
All data gathered during the collection of one system information item
from one host in one instance is called an "item dataset".
.PP
.
.
.SS "Data ID"
The \*[lhc] assigns a
.B data ID
to each sysinfo item based on the instructions it represents.
The lnxhc program uses this data ID to identify items which refer to the same
data so that it can save effort by collecting such data only once.
.PP
You can use the data ID to insert system information from a file into the
current system information. This can be useful if a health check requires
information that the \*[lhc] cannot collect by itself (for example hardware or
hypervisor data). You can also use it if you have manually collected data for
a health check. See the description of the
.B modification actions
for more details.
.PP
.
.
.SH ACTIONS
.OD "" a check_name . sysinfo_id = filename
.OD "" a sysinfo_id = filename
.OD "" a data_id = filename
.OD add\-data "" check_name . sysinfo_id = filename
.OD add\-data "" sysinfo_id = filename
.OD add\-data "" data_id = filename
Add item data from file
.I filename
to the current system information.

This action adds the contents of a file as item data to the current system
information, which can then be used by a health check as input data.
This can be useful if a health check requires information that
the \*[lhc] cannot collect by itself (for example hardware or hypervisor data).
You can also use it to run health checks on data that was not collected by the
lnxhc command.

If there is no current system information, the \*[lhc] creates a new instance
and host dataset and adds the item data to that. Otherwise, it adds the data to
the "last" host dataset, that is the host dataset with the highest index from
the instance dataset with the highest index. You can instruct the lnxhc
command to use a specific instance ID and host ID by using the
.B \-\-instance\-id
and
.B \-\-host\-id
options.

You identify the target item by providing the corresponding health check name
and sysinfo item ID concatenated by a dot. The check name and dot can optionally
be left out, in which case the data for all active or selected checks with a
corresponding sysinfo item ID will be modified. Alternatively, the target item
can be identified directly specifying the data ID. See action
.B \-\-show\-data\-id
in
.MP lnxhc-check 1
for more information on how to determine the data ID of a sysinfo item.

.B Example:
.br
.CL # lnxhc check \-\-show\-data\-id fs_disk_usage.df_output
.CL fs_disk_usage.df_output=program::/bin/df
.CL Done.
.CL # lnxhc sysinfo \-\-add\-data program::/bin/df=/tmp/df.txt
.PP
.
.OD clear
Clear all system information.

This action removes all current system information.
.PP
.
.OD collect c
Collect system information.

This action collects system information for the active, installed health
checks and stores it as current system information, replacing any previous
system information.

.OD export e filename
Write system information to a file.

This action writes all system information to file
.IR filename .
You can use such a file for example to copy system information to another
instance of the Linux Health Checker or to store it for later use.
If
.I filename
is "-", the output is written to the standard output stream instead.
.PP
.
.OD import i filename
Read system information from a file written by \-\-export.

This action replaces all current system information with data from file
.IR filename .
If
.I filename
is "-", the data is read from the standard input stream instead.
.PP
.
.OD list l
List system information.

This action shows the list of all system information data items, including their
property-key, data ID, result code, collection time, and size. It also shows
the instance and host IDs including their property-keys.
.PP
.
.OD merge m filename
Add system information from a file written by \-\-export.

This action combines the current system information dataset with data found in
file
.IR filename .
If
.I filename
is "-", the data is read from the standard input stream instead.
If an instance, host or item dataset with the same ID is found in both sources,
the data from the file is used.
.PP
.
.OD new n
Add new instance and host datasets to the current system information.

This action adds an empty instance and host dataset to the current system
information. The \*[lhc] appends the new instance to the end of the current
instance list.
.PP
.
.OD remove r property_key
Remove a system information property.

This action removes a system information property.
You identify the property by specifying its
.I property_key
(see the
.MP lnxhc_properties 7
man page).
.RS
.NT You can only remove properties which address a complete dataset such as an instance or host dataset.
.RE
.PP
.
.OD set "" property_key = value
Change the value of a system information property.

This action changes the value of a system information property.
You identify the property by specifying
its
.I property_key
(see the
.MP lnxhc_properties 7
man page).

.B Example:
.br
.CL # lnxhc sysinfo \-\-set 0.host.0.id=localhost
.RS
.NT You can only change properties which do not address a complete dataset such as an instance ID or the start time of an item.
.RE
.PP
.
.OD show s
Show system information.

This action displays all current system information. This includes
the data content of items and the values of system variables.
.PP
.
.OD show\-data "" check_name . sysinfo_id
.OD show\-data "" sysinfo_id
.OD show\-data "" data_id
Show sysinfo item data.

This action displays the actual data that is associated with a specific
sysinfo item.

You identify the target item by providing the corresponding health check name
and sysinfo item ID concatenated by a dot. The check name and dot can optionally
be left out, in which case all active or selected checks are searched for the
corresponding sysinfo item ID. Note that this function will terminate with an
error if more than one data ID matches the specification.

Alternatively, the target item can be identified directly specifying the data
ID. See action
.B \-\-show\-data\-id
in
.MP lnxhc-check 1
for more information on how to determine the data ID of a sysinfo item.
.PP
.
.OD show\-property "" property_key
Show the value of a system information property.

This action displays the value of a system information property. You identify
the property by specifying its
.I property_key
(see the
.MP lnxhc_properties 7
man page).

.B Example:
.br
.CL # lnxhc sysinfo \-\-show-property '0.host.0.sysvar.*'
.PP
.
.OD show\-sysvar
Show the value of system variables.

This action displays the values of all system variables in a host dataset.
If there is more than one host dataset in the current system information,
the \*[lhc] chooses the "last" host dataset, that is the host dataset with
the highest index from the instance dataset with the highest index.

You can instruct the lnxhc command to use a specific host dataset by
specifying its instance ID and host ID using the
.B \-\-instance\-id
and
.B \-\-host\-id
options.
.PP
.
.OD sysvar "" sysvar_id = value
Change the value of a system variable.

This action changes the value of the system variable identified by
.IR sysvar_id .
If there is more than one host dataset in the current system information,
the \*[lhc] chooses the "last" host dataset, that is the host dataset with
the highest index from the instance dataset with the highest index.

You can instruct the lnxhc command to use a specific host dataset by
specifying its instance ID and host ID using the
.B \-\-instance\-id
and
.B \-\-host\-id
options.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.OD file f filename
Operate on system information in file.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to apply actions on the data found in
.IR filename .
Without this option, actions apply to the data in
the current system information.
.PP
.
.OD host\-id H host_id
Use specified host ID for actions.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to use the specified
.I host_id
as host ID for actions.

.B Example:
.br
.CL # lnxhc sysinfo --new --host-id localhost
.PP
.
.OD instance\-id I instance_id
Use specified instance ID for actions.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to use the specified
.I instance_id
as instance ID for actions.

.B Example:
.br
.CL # lnxhc sysinfo --import ./file.sysinfo --instance-id install_time
.PP
.
.OD no\-sudo
Skip collection of sysinfo data requiring sudo.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to skip the collection of sysinfo data that
would require changing the user ID of the calling user using the sudo mechanism.
You can use this option to prevent ineffective password prompts if your user
ID is not enabled for sudo usage. See also
.MP sudo 5 .
.PP
.
.OD profile "" profile_name
Use configuration values from a specific profile.

This option instructs the \*[lhc] to use configuration data of the profile
with the specified
.I profile_name
when collecting system information.
Without this option it uses configuration data of the active profile.
.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Merge sysinfo data from two files:
.RS 4
.CL # lnxhc sysinfo --merge ./local.sysinfo --merge ./remote.sysinfo
.RE
.PP
.
.B Add sysinfo data from remote host using ssh:
.RS 4
.CL # ssh user@remote 'lnxhc sysinfo -c -f -' | lnxhc sysinfo -m -
.RE
.PP
.
.B Add item data for sysinfo item \[dq]df_output\[dq] of check \[dq]fs_disk_usage\[dq]:
.RS 4
.CL # lnxhc sysinfo --add-data fs_disk_usage.df_output=./df.txt
.RE
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP lnxhc 1 ,
.MP lnxhc_properties 7 ,
.MP lnxhc_check_definitions 5
