.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc 1 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "\*[lhc]"
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc \- Linux Health Checker command-line interface
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "lnxhc " SUBCOMMAND
.OS help h
.OS version v
.RS 17
.
.OS verbose V
.OS quiet q
.br
.
.OS user\-dir U directory-name
.OS system
.br
.
.OS color "" "" always|never|auto
.RE
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The purpose of the \*[lhc] is to identify potential
problems before they impact your system's availability or cause outages.
It collects Linux settings and system status and compares them with
best-practice setups or values defined by you. It produces output in the form
of detailed messages (called "exception messages"), which provide information
about potential problems and the suggested actions to take.
.PP
.
.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
The first argument passed to the lnxhc command-line interface is called the
.IR SUBCOMMAND .
The \*[lhc] uses subcommands to group related
functions for easier access.
You can shorten the subcommand argument for the lnxhc command as long as the
resulting word is not ambiguous.
.PP
The lnxhc command supports the following subcommands:
.TP 4
.B check
Display, configure and manage health checks. See
.MP lnxhc-check 1 .
.TP 4
.B consumer
Display, configure and manage consumers. See
.MP lnxhc-consumer 1 .
.TP 4
.B devel
Access miscellaneous support functions for developing new health check
plug-ins. See
.MP lnxhc-devel 1 .
.TP 4
.B profile
Display, modify and manage configuration profiles. See
.MP lnxhc-profile 1 .
.TP 4
.B run
Run health checks. See
.MP lnxhc-run 1 .
.TP 4
.B sysinfo
Display and manage health check input data (called "system information"). See
.MP lnxhc-sysinfo 1 .
.PP
.
.
.SH "GLOBAL OPTIONS"
You can specify these global options in any of the subcommands:
.PP
.OD help h
Print usage information, then exit.

Combine this option with a subcommand or another option to receive details
about the combination of arguments. Not all combinations have detailed
information.
.PP
.
.OD quiet q
Print only warning and error messages.

This overrides the \-\-verbose option.
.PP
.
.OD user\-dir U directory-name
Use
.I directory-name
as user data directory.

The user data directory contains user information, such as user-specific checks,
consumers and profiles. This directory also contains the current system
information and the most recent health check results.

The default location for the user data directory is ~/.lnxhc.
.PP
.
.OD version v
Print version information, then exit.
.PP
.
.OD verbose V
Print additional run-time information.

Increases the amount of additional run-time information
that is displayed by the \*[lhc]. This option can be specified
more than once.
.PP
.
.OD color "" "" always|never|auto
Specify when to use color in terminal output.

Use "always" to always get color output, "never" to never get color output and
"auto" to let the lnxhc tool automatically determine if color output is
appropriate.

Default value is "auto".
.PP
.
.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The \*[lhc] evaluates the following environment variables:
.PP
.TP
LC_MESSAGES
Specify the preferred language to use when reporting exception messages. See
.MP locale 1 .

If no translation is available for the specified language, the \*[lhc]
uses the default language, which is American English (en_US).
.PP
.
.TP
LNXHC_USER_DIR
Specify the location of the user data directory. The default location is
~/.lnxhc/. You can use option
.B \-\-user\-dir
to override the value specified in this environment variable.
.PP
.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.lnxhc/
Default location for the user data directory.

The user data directory contains user information, such as user-specific checks,
consumers and profiles. This directory also contains the current system
information and the most recent health check results.
.PP
.
.TP
~/.lnxhc/lnxhcrc
User-specific configuration file. If present, the system-wide configuration
file is not read. See
.MP lnxhcrc 5 .
.PP
.
.TP
/etc/lnxhcrc
System-wide configuration file. See
.MP lnxhcrc 5 .
.PP
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP 4
Subcommands:
.MP lnxhc-check 1 ,
.MP lnxhc-consumer 1 ,
.MP lnxhc-devel 1 ,
.MP lnxhc-profile 1 ,
.MP lnxhc-run 1 ,
.MP lnxhc-sysinfo 1
.TP 4
Instructions for writing health check plug-ins:
.MP lnxhc_writing_checks 7 ,
.MP lnxhc_check_definitions 5 ,
.MP lnxhc_check_descriptions 5 ,
.MP lnxhc_check_exceptions 5 ,
.MP lnxhc_check_program 7
