.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc-devel 1 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "\*[lhc]"
.
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc-devel \- Develop new health checks
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.na
.B lnxhc devel
.OS show\-sysvar
.OS create-check "" directory-name
.ad
.hy
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use the
.B devel
subcommand to initiate new health check development.
.
.
.SH ACTIONS
.OD show\-sysvar
Show system specifications.

This action collects and displays system specifications, for example about the
version and platform, for the Linux instance on which you run this command.

The Linux Health Checker uses this information and dependency statements of
health checks to assess whether a health check is applicable to the Linux
instance. See
.MP lnxhc_check_definitions 5 .
.PP
.
.OD create\-check "" directory-name
.RS
Starts a dialog to create skeleton files for a new health check.

The dialog asks basic questions about the health check. Based on the
information you provide,  this action creates the directory
.I directory-name
and initial versions of the required files.
.NT You must specify a unique \fIdirectory-name\fP.
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Create a new health check called \[dq]my_check\[dq]:
.RS 4
.CL # lnxhc devel \-\-create-check ./my_check
.RE
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP lnxhc 1 ,
.MP lnxhc_writing_checks 7
