.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc_cons_descriptions 5 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "\*[lhc]"
.
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc_cons_descriptions \- Describe a consumer's purpose and parameters
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B descriptions
file of a check result consumer contains textual descriptions of the
consumer and its parameters.
.PP
.
.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Data is stored in lines of text which are grouped into named sections. Text
encoding is UTF-8. Each line can contain data in one of the following formats:
.PP
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.B Section heading

A section heading is a line starting with an opening square
bracket ("["), followed by one or more whitespace-separated identifiers,
followed by a closing square bracket ("]"). Identifiers may consists of
lowercase-letters a-z, digits 0-9 and the underscore sign.

Example:
.br
.CL [description]
.PP
.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Text

A text line contains a string of arbitrary characters. Characters may
be escaped by prefixing them with the backslash character ("\\"). Escaped
characters have no special meaning, e.g. an escaped opening square bracket ("[")
at the start of a line does not indicate the start of a new section.
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH SECTIONS
Valid sections for a descriptions file are:
.PP
.B [title]
.RS
This mandatory section contains a short text describing the consumer.
.PP
.B Example:
.br
.CL [title]
.CL Show a textual health check report
.PP
.NT No formatting can be applied to the text in a title section.
.RE
.
.B [description]
.RS
This mandatory section contains a detailed text describing the type of
output that the consumer generates, or the type of processing that the
consumer implements.
.PP
.RE
.
.BI [param  " identifier" ]
.RS
This mandatory section contains a short text describing the parameter
specified by
.IR identifier .
For each parameter that a consumer defines one such section must be present.
.PP
.B Example:
.br
.CL [param show_info]
.CL A number which can be 0 or 1. If set to 1, the report includes
.CL informational check output.
.PP
.RE
.RE
.
.
.SH FORMATTING
Text in a descriptions file can be enhanced with basic formatting elements,
such as paragraphs, preformatted text, lists, and simple tables. See the
.MP lnxhc_text_format 7
man page for more information on available formatting elements.
.
.
.SH LOCALIZATION
The default language for a descriptions file is American English (en_US).
Translated versions of the descriptions file may be added in a sub-directory
of the consumer directory. This sub-directory must be named after the
code of the language to which the translation applies (see man page of the
.MP locale 1
command).
.PP
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP lnxhc 1 ,
.MP lnxhc_text_format 7 ,
.MP lnxhc_writing_consumers 7
