.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhcrc 5 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "\*[lhc]"
.
.
.SH NAME
lnxhcrc \- Linux Health Checker configuration file
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B lnxhcrc
file contains configuration information for the \*[lhc] tool (see
.MP lnxhc 1 ).
.PP
The system-wide configuration file is located at
.BR /etc/lnxhcrc .
To change settings for a single user, place a customized copy of this file
at location
.BR ~/.lnxhc/lnxhcrc .
.PP
Lines in the configuration file can either be:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
Empty lines or lines consisting only of white space characters. The \*[lhc]
ignores these lines.
.IP \(bu 2
Comment lines which start with a hash sign ("#"). The \*[lhc] treats these like
empty lines and ignores them.
.IP \(bu 2
Directives in the form
.BR key = value .
You can find the list of valid directives and their description in section
DIRECTIVES.
.RE
.
.SS "Example configuration file"
.RS 4
.CL #
.CL # Example \*[lhc] configuration file
.CL #
.CL
.CL # Database directories
.CL db_path = /usr/lib/lnxhc
.CL db_path = /usr/local/lib/lnxhc
.CL
.CL # Database caching flag
.CL db_caching = 1
.RE
.
.
.SH DIRECTIVES
You can use configuration file directives to change the configuration of the
\*[lhc]. All directives are optional.
.PP
.KY db_path = directory
.RS
Use
.I directory
as database directory.
.PP
Specifies a directory which the \*[lhc] searches for installed checks,
consumers, and profiles. You can repeat this line to specify multiple
directories. The \*[lhc] installs new checks, consumers, and profiles in the
first specified directory.
.PP
The default database directories are
.RS
.B /usr/lib/lnxhc
.RE
and
.RS
.BR /usr/local/lib/lnxhc .
.RE
.PP
.RE
.
.KY db_caching =1|0
.RS
Enable or disable database caching.
.PP
Specify 0 to disable database caching or 1 to enable it. When database
caching is enabled, the \*[lhc] tries to minimize the overhead of running the
lnxhc tool by reading the full contents of each database directory only
when a change has occurred.
.PP
The default value for this setting is 1.
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/lnxhcrc
System-wide configuration file.
.TP
~/.lnxhc/lnxhcrc
Per-user configuration file. If this file is present, the system-wide
configuration file is not read.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP lnxhc 1
