.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc_properties 7 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "\*[lhc]"
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc_properties \- Linux Health Checker properties
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*[lhc] provides identifiers called "property keys" to enable users to
address individual data attributes of objects such as a health check, a
consumer, or sysinfo data. You can use property keys to display or modify
these attributes, or to select objects based on attribute values.
.PP
A property key consists of a concatenation of words separated by dots. Each word
is either a placeholder (for example for a check name), or a keyword (for
example "duration").
.PP
.B Example:
.br
This property key addresses the state of check "fs_disk_usage":
.br
.CL fs_disk_usage.state
.PP
Property keys and the associated actions are primarily intended for use by
advanced users who have a good understanding of the concepts of the
\*[lhc], or for use in automated operations by other applications.
.PP
.
.
.SH "CHECK PROPERTIES"
.SS "Placeholders in property keys for health checks"
Property keys for health checks can contain the following placeholders:
.
.TP
.I check_name
Health check name.

.RS
.NT You can omit this name in property keys used for actions which accept a selection argument. The \*[lhc] then expands the property key to a list of property keys by using the name of each selected check.
.RE
.
.TP
.I author_num
Index for the list of health check authors. This starts with 0.
.
.TP
.I extrafile_num
Index for the list of extra health check files. This starts with 0.
.
.TP
.I dep_num
Index for the list of health check dependencies. This starts with 0.
.
.TP
.I parameter_id
Parameter ID.
.
.TP
.I sysinfo_id
System information item ID.
.
.TP
.I prog_extrafile_num
Index for the list of extra files for a program-type system information item.
This starts with 0.
.
.TP
.I rec_extrafile_num
Index for the list of extra files for a record-type system information item.
This starts with 0.
.
.TP
.I exception_id
Exception ID.
.RE
.
.SS "Property keys for health checks"
.
The \*[lhc] defines the following property keys for health checks:
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .id
Health check name.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .title
Health check title.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .desc
Health check description.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .author. author_num
Author information.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .default_state
Numerical representation of the default activation state of this check. This
property can take one of the values 0 or 1, corresponding to the activation
states inactive and active.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .state
Numerical representation of the current activation state of this check. This
property can take one of the values 0 or 1, corresponding to the activation
states inactive and active. You can modify this property.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .component
Identifier describing the component that is being checked.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .default_repeat
Default interval at which this check is repeated.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .repeat
Current interval at which this check is repeated. You can modify this
property.
See action \-\-rec\-duration in the
.MP lnxhc-check 1
man page for an explanation of the format used to specify the interval.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .multihost
If this is non-zero, the check analyzes data from multiple hosts at the same
time.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .multitime
If this is non-zero, the check analyzes data from multiple instances (that is,
points in time) at the same time.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .dir
Name of the directory in which this check is installed.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .system
If this is non-zero, the check is installed in the system-wide database.
Otherwise it is installed in the user database.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .extrafile. extrafile_num
Name of an additional file which this check provides.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .dep. dep_num
Dependencies that must be met by a host so that a check is applicable to
analyze data from that host. These dependencies are defined by statements
that compare the contents of system variables provided by a host with values
provided by the check author. See the
.MP lnxhc_check_definitions 5
man page for more information on dependencies.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .param. parameter_id .id
ID of this parameter.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .param. parameter_id .desc
Description of this parameter.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .param. parameter_id .default_value
Default value of this parameter.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .param. parameter_id .value
Current value of this parameter. You can modify this property.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .id
ID of this system information item.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .type
Numerical representation of the type of this system information item. This
property can take one of the values 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4, corresponding to the
system information item types file, program, record, reference and external.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .file_filename
Name of a file that this system information item defines as input source.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .file_user
Name of the user ID that the \*[lhc] uses to access the specified
file.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .prog_cmdline
The \*[lhc] runs this command-line to collect the data defined
by this system information item.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .prog_user
Name of the user ID that the \*[lhc] uses to run the command-line
defined by this system information item.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .prog_ignorerc
If this is non-zero, the \*[lhc] runs this health check
even if the specified program used to collect system information terminated
with a non-zero exit code.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .prog_extrafile. prog_extrafile_num
Name of an additional file which this system information item provides.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .rec_start
The command-line that the \*[lhc] runs to start the
collection of data defined by this system information item.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .rec_stop
The command-line that the \*[lhc] runs to stop the
collection of data defined by this system information item.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .rec_default_duration
The default duration that the \*[lhc] waits after
running the start command-line and before running the stop command-line.
See action \-\-rec\-duration in the
.MP lnxhc-check 1
man page for an explanation of the duration format.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .rec_duration
The current duration that the \*[lhc] waits after
running the start command-line and before running the stop command-line.
See action \-\-rec\-duration in the
.MP lnxhc-check 1
man page for an explanation of the duration format.
You can modify this property.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .rec_user
Name of the user ID that the \*[lhc] uses to run the start and
stop command-lines defined by this system information item.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .rec_extrafile. rec_extrafile_num
Name of an additional file which this system information item provides.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .ref_check_name
Name of the check that this system information item refers to.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .si. sysinfo_id .ref_sysinfo_id
ID of the system information item that this system information item refers to.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .ex. exception_id .id
ID of this exception.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .ex. exception_id .default_sev
Numerical representation of the default severity of this exception. This
property can take one of the values 0, 1, or 2, corresponding to the severity
levels low, medium and high.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .ex. exception_id .sev
Numerical representation of the current severity of this exception. This
property can take one of the values 0, 1, or 2, corresponding to the severity
levels low, medium and high. You can modify this property.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .ex. exception_id .default_state
Numerical representation of the default activation state of this exception. This
property can take one of the values 0 or 1, corresponding to the activation
states inactive and active.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .ex. exception_id .state
Numerical representation of the current activation state of this exception. This
property can take one of the values 0 or 1, corresponding to the activation
states inactive and active. You can modify this property.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .ex. exception_id .summary
Text template for the summary section of the message of this exception.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .ex. exception_id .explanation
Text template for the explanation section of the message of this exception.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .ex. exception_id .solution
Text template for the solution section of the message of this exception.
.
.TP
.IR  check_name .ex. exception_id .reference
Text template for the reference section of the message of this exception.
.
.
.SH "CONSUMER PROPERTIES"
.SS "Placeholders in property keys for consumers"
Property keys for consumers can contain the following placeholders:
.TP
.I consumer_name
Consumer name.

.RS
.NT You can omit this name in property keys used for actions which accept a selection argument. The \*[lhc] then expands the property key to a list of property keys by using the name of each selected consumer.
.RE
.
.TP
.I author_num
Index for the list of consumer authors. This starts with 0.
.
.TP
.I extrafile_num
Index for the list of extra consumer files. This starts with 0.
.
.TP
.I parameter_id
Parameter ID.
.RE
.
.SS "Property keys for consumers"
The \*[lhc] defines the following property keys for consumers:
.TP
.IR consumer_name .id
Consumer name.
.
.TP
.IR consumer_name .title
Consumer title.
.
.TP
.IR consumer_name .desc
Consumer description.
.
.TP
.IR consumer_name .author. author_num
Author information.
.
.TP
.IR consumer_name .default_state
Numerical representation of the default activation state of this consumer. This
property can take one of the values 0 or 1, corresponding to the activation
states inactive and active.
.
.TP
.IR consumer_name .state
Numerical representation of the current activation state of this consumer. This
property can take one of the values 0 or 1, corresponding to the activation
states inactive and active. You can modify this property.
.
.TP
.IR consumer_name .format
Numerical representation of the format in which the \*[lhc]
passes data to this consumer. This property can take one of the values 0 or 1,
corresponding to the format specifications xml and env.
See the
.MP lnxhc_cons_definitions 5
man page for more information on consumer format specifications.
.
.TP
.IR consumer_name .freq
Numerical representation of the frequency at which the \*[lhc]
calls this consumer. This property can take one of the values 0, 1, or 2,
corresponding to the frequency specifications foreach, once and both.
See the
.MP lnxhc_cons_definitions 5
man page for more information on consumer frequency specifications.
.
.TP
.IR consumer_name .event
Numerical representation of the type of event for which the \*[lhc]
calls this consumer. This property can take one of the values 0 or 1,
corresponding to the event type specifications ex and any.
See the
.MP lnxhc_cons_definitions 5
man page for more information on consumer event type specifications,
.
.TP
.IR consumer_name .type
Numerical representation of the type of this consumer. This property can take
one of the values 0 or 1, corresponding to the consumer types handler and
report.
.
.TP
.IR  consumer_name .dir
Name of the directory in which this consumer is installed.
.
.TP
.IR  consumer_name .system
If this is non-zero, the consumer is installed in the system-wide database.
Otherwise it is installed in the user database.
.
.TP
.IR  consumer_name .extrafile. extrafile_num
Name of an additional file which this consumer provides.
.
.TP
.IR  consumer_name .param. parameter_id .id
ID of this parameter.
.
.TP
.IR  consumer_name .param. parameter_id .desc
Description of this parameter.
.
.TP
.IR  consumer_name .param. parameter_id .default_value
Default value of this parameter.
.
.TP
.IR  consumer_name .param. parameter_id .value
Current value of this parameter. You can modify this property.
.
.
.SH "PROFILE PROPERTIES"
.SS "Placeholders in property keys for configuration profiles"
Property keys for configuration profiles can contain the following placeholders:
.TP
.I profile_name
Configuration profile name.

.RS
.NT You can omit this name in property keys used for actions which accept a selection argument. The \*[lhc] then expands the property key to a list of property keys by using the name of each selected profile.
.RE
.
.TP
.I check_name
Health Check name.
.
.TP
.I parameter_id
Parameter ID.
.
.TP
.I sysinfo_id
System information item ID.
.
.TP
.I exception_id
Exception ID.
.
.TP
.I consumer_name
Consumer name.
.
.RE
.
.SS "Property keys for configuration profiles"
The \*[lhc] defines the following property keys for configuration
profiles:
.TP
.IR  profile_name .id
Configuration profile name.
.
.TP
.IR  profile_name .desc
Configuration profile description.
.
.TP
.IR  profile_name .filename
Name of the file which contains the profile.
.
.TP
.IR  profile_name .system
If this is non-zero, the profile is installed in the system-wide database.
Otherwise it is installed in the user database.
.
.TP
.IR  profile_name .check. check_name .state
Numerical representation of the current activation state of this check. This
property can take one of the values 0 or 1, corresponding to the activation
states inactive and active.
.
.TP
.IR  profile_name .check. check_name .repeat
Current interval at which this check is repeated.
See action \-\-rec\-duration in the
.MP lnxhc-check 1
man page for an explanation of the format used to specify the interval.
.
.TP
.IR  profile_name .check. check_name .param. parameter_id .value
Current value of this health check parameter.
.
.TP
.IR  profile_name .check. check_name .ex. exception_id .sev
Numerical representation of the current severity of this exception. This
property can take one of the values 0, 1, or 2, corresponding to the severity
levels low, medium, and high.
.
.TP
.IR  profile_name .check. check_name .ex. exception_id .state
Numerical representation of the current activation state of this exception. This
property can take one of the values 0 or 1, corresponding to the activation
states inactive and active.
.
.TP
.IR  profile_name .check. check_name .si. sysinfo_id .rec_duration
The current duration that the \*[lhc] waits after
running the start command-line and before running the stop command-line
for this record-type system information item.
See action \-\-rec\-duration in the
.MP lnxhc-check 1
man page for an explanation of the duration format.
.
.TP
.IR  profile_name .cons. consumer_name .state
Numerical representation of the current activation state of this consumer. This
property can take one of the values 0 or 1, corresponding to the activation
states inactive and active.
.
.TP
.IR  profile_name .cons. consumer_name .param. parameter_id .value
Current value of this consumer parameter.
.
.
.SH "SYSINFO PROPERTIES"
.SS "Placeholders in property keys for system information"
Property keys for system information can contain the following placeholders:
.
.TP
.I inst_num
Index for the list of instance datasets. This starts with 0.
.
.TP
.I host_num
Index for the list of host datasets of one instance. This starts with 0.
.
.TP
.I item_num
Index for the list of item datasets of one host. This starts with 0.
.
.TP
.I sysvar_id
System variable ID.
.RE
.
.SS "Property keys for health checks"
.
The \*[lhc] defines the following property keys for system information:
.TP
.IR inst_num
An instance dataset.
.
.TP
.IR inst_num .id
ID of this instance.
.
.TP
.IR inst_num .host. host_num
A host dataset.
.
.TP
.IR inst_num .host. host_num .id
ID of this host.
.
.TP
.IR inst_num .host. host_num .sysvar. sysvar_id
Value of a system variable for this host.
.
.TP
.IR inst_num .host. host_num .item. item_num
An item dataset.
.
.TP
.IR inst_num .host. host_num .item. item_num .id
Data ID of this item.
.
.TP
.IR inst_num .host. host_num .item. item_num .start_time
Time at which collection of this item started. The time is measured in seconds
since the start of the epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970).
.
.TP
.IR inst_num .host. host_num .item. item_num .end_time
Time at which collection of this item ended. The time is measured in seconds
since the start of the epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970).
.
.TP
.IR inst_num .host. host_num .item. item_num .rc
Numerical representation of the result code for this item. This property
can take one of the values 0 or 1, corresponding to the result codes failed
and ok.
.
.TP
.IR inst_num .host. host_num .item. item_num .data
The data content of this item.
.
.TP
.IR inst_num .host. host_num .item. item_num .err_data
The error content of this item.
.RE
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP lnxhc-check 1 ,
.MP lnxhc-consumer 1 ,
.MP lnxhc-profile 1 ,
.MP lnxhc-sysinfo 1
