.\" Macro for inserting an option synopsis string.
.\" .OS <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OS
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  ds result "[
.  if !'\\$2'' .as result \fB\-\\$2\fP|
.  as result \fB\-\-\\$1\fP
.  if !'\\*[args]'' .as result "\ \\*[args]
.  as result "]
\\*[result]
..
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting a keyword description prologue.
.\" .KY <keyword> <terminal> <non-terminal> <terminal> <non-terminal>
.de KY
\fB\\$1\fP\\$2\fI\\$3\fP\\$4\fI\\$5\fP
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.\" Macro for inserting a note.
.\" .NT <text>
.de NT
.  RS 0
.  TP
.  B Note:
\\$*
.  RE
..
.\" Full name of the health checker
.ds lhc "Linux Health Checker
.\" Man page start
.TH lnxhc_check_exceptions 5 "lnxhc 1.3-1" 2013-12-18 "\*[lhc]"
.
.
.SH NAME
lnxhc_check_exceptions \- Define health check exception messages
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B exceptions
file of a health check defines the exception message that the \*[lhc]
displays when the corresponding health check program identifies a problem.
Exception messages contain information about the problem, including a possible
solution and references to related documentation.
.PP
.
.
.SS "Example exceptions file"
.RS 4
.CL \f(CB[summary critical_limit]\fP
.CL The critical threshold of &param_critical_limit;% disk space usage
.CL is exceeded on some file systems (&critical_exceeded_list_summary;)
.CL
.CL \f(CB[explanation critical_limit]\fP
.CL The percentage of used disk space on one or more file systems
.CL has exceeded the specified critical threshold of
.CL &param_critical_limit;%.
.CL
.CL Further increase in the amount of used space is likely to
.CL compromise the availability of an application or of the
.CL complete system.
.CL
.CL The following file systems exceed the threshold:
.CL
.CL &critical_exceeded_list;
.CL
.CL To view the current disk space usage, run the \[dq]df\[dq] command with no
.CL parameters.
.CL
.CL \f(CB[solution critical_limit]\fP
.CL Free disk space on the affected file systems. For example,
.CL delete obsolete files and move directories with growing space
.CL requirements to separate file systems.
.CL
.CL \f(CB[reference critical_limit]\fP
.CL See the man page of the \[dq]df\[dq] command.
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Data is stored in lines of text that are grouped into named sections. Text
encoding is UTF-8. Each line can contain data in one of the following
formats:
.PP
.
.
.SS "Section heading"
A section heading line consists of one or more identifiers, separated by blanks
and enclosed in square brackets ("[ ]"). Identifiers consist of
lowercase-letters a-z, digits 0-9, and the underscore sign.
.PP
.B Example:
.br
.CL [summary warn_limit]
.PP
.
.
.SS Text
A text line contains arbitrary characters or entities. Entities are
placeholders for data that the \*[lhc] or the health check program provides
at run-time. Entities are identified by an ampersand sign ("&"), followed by
an identifier, followed by a semicolon (";").
.PP
.B Example:
.br
.CL The warning threshold of &param_warn_limit;% disk space usage is
.br
.CL exceeded on some file systems (&warn_exceeded_list_summary;)
.PP
This example text uses two entities,
.B param_warn_limit
which is automatically
set by the \*[lhc] to the value of the health check parameter "warn_limit",
and
.BR warn_exceeded_list_summary ,
which is set to a value provided by the health check program.
.PP
Entity identifiers consist of lowercase letters a-z, digits 0-9, and the
underscore sign. Health check authors can choose arbitrary identifiers
as long as they do not conflict with one of the built-in entities.
The \*[lhc] provides the following entities:
.TP
.BI &param_ param_id ;
The value of parameter
.IR param_id .
.PP
.
.
.SH SECTIONS
The sections in the list below are valid in an exceptions file. Each
section is mandatory and must be present exactly once per exception. There
is no restriction on the order in which sections appear, but keep all sections
for one exception together.
.PP
The
.I identifier
in each section heading specifies the name of the exception to which the
section applies.
.PP
.BI [summary " identifier" ]
.RS
This section contains a summary of the problem. The summary should be kept
short but include enough information for users familiar with the problem to
recognize it.
.PP
.B Example:
.br
.CL The critical threshold of 90% disk space usage is exceeded
.CL on some file systems (/ 99%)
.PP
.RE
.
.BI [explanation " identifier" ]
.RS
This section contains a detailed text explaining the problem. Such an
explanation must at least answer the following questions:
.PP
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
What is the problem?
.IP \(bu 2
What is the potential impact on the checked component?
.IP \(bu 2
What are the steps to manually verify that the problem exists?
.PP
.RE
The explanation should be written so that users with only basic knowledge
of the checked component can still understand the problem.
.PP
.RE
.
.BI [solution " identifier" ]
.RS
This section contains a detailed text describing how the problem can be
solved. If there are multiple solutions, one solution should be chosen
and described in this section. The description should make it clear that there
may be more than one way to solve the problem.
.PP
.RE
.
.BI [reference " identifier" ]
.RS
This section contains a list of references to resources (tutorials, papers,
best practice documents, man pages, mailing list postings, publicly available
bug reports, etc.) which users can consult to obtain more information on the
problem and options on how to solve it.
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH GUIDELINES
When writing exception messages, consider the following guidelines which
might help maintaining a consistent message quality.
.PP
.RS 4
.IP 1. 3
Keep the
.B Summary
brief. This makes it easy to grasp and also useful for an email subject.
However, the overriding concern is that all important information is included.
.
.IP 2. 3
Omit the period from the
.BR Summary .
This provides more freedom for variables at the end and is more suited to use
as an email topic.
.
.IP 3. 3
The
.B Explanation
starts with a problem description. This should be more detailed than the
description in the Summary. If no appropriate detail can be given, re-state
the Summary. This is because the Summary can be separated from the main text,
for example, if used as an email subject.
.
.IP 4. 3
The
.B Solution
should focus on a single solution without implying that this is the only
solution. Depending on the topic it might be useful to mention several
solutions, possibly pointing off to more explicit descriptions, such as
how-to documents, man pages, or URLs.
.
.IP 5. 3
Ideally, URLs in the
.B Reference
section should point to a topic that is closely related to the problem.
It should also be a high-level URL that is likely to remain unchanged.
If a low-level URL is used, also give the page title to assist in finding
the site, should the URL or title change.
.
.IP 6. 3
If there are no references in the
.B Reference
section say: None.
.
.IP 7. 3
Use double quotation marks (") for highlighting command names, keywords, and
values; but not for file names and paths.
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH FORMATTING
Text in an exceptions file can be enhanced with basic formatting elements,
such as paragraphs, preformatted text, lists, and simple tables. See the
.MP lnxhc_text_format 7
man page for more information on available formatting elements.
.
.
.SH LOCALIZATION
The default language for an exceptions file is American English (en_US).
Add translated versions of the exceptions file to a subdirectory of the
health check directory. This sub-directory must be named after the code of the
language to which the translation applies. See the
.MP locale 1
man page for details.
.PP
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.MP lnxhc 1 ,
.MP lnxhc_text_format 7 ,
.MP lnxhc_writing_checks 7
